
The folder contains two files: local minima analysis for recent most 2 days and for entire 5 days of LTE data records that we had.

Local minima analysis: During the curve-fitting part, we realized that we just need to focus on the time periods of prolonged low/no user mobility. For this purpose, I wrote thought about this approach that extracts locations from the time period when user is at the minima of his mobility plot. The data considered was studied in window sizes of 6, 8 and 12 hours i.e. we looked for a maxima in every twice window duration and then, searched for a minima prior to that maxima and after that maxima, inside the 2*window period. It was observed that the window size of 12 hours worked the best and it also confirmed the intuition that typically, a user on the move/in office at a point of day, would be expected to be at home 12 hours before and after that time of day. Then, the location for those minimas are extracted and the proximity of the locations to each other gave us a measure of accuracy of our algorithm.

The first script uses data of last 2 days (recent most) and applied the algorithm on it. Subsequently, I tried to see if studying the entire 5 days of data would yield any better results but it was seen that no improvement in accuracy was obtained, although with more data, the algorithm did run for more number of users (for users with too sparse records, it didn't work).

So, we concluded that this approach was not only simpler to implement but also performed better than other algorithms for the same amount of data. Though kmeans clustering gives additional insights like typical time of day, duration at perisstent location, it couldn't work as well as local minima analysis did for sparse users.
